[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome back.
I'm your host, Dr.
Robert J Gilbert.
In this episode, we will
continue our exploration
of hidden sacred
geometry patterns
with a six-pointed star
form of the first level
of our consciousness, which
in the Western tradition
is called the astral body.
So while our life body
manifests in space
as the five-pointed form
of a star or a pentagram,
the astral body of consciousness
has as one of its forms
the hexagram in three
dimensions, which
is known technically as
the stellated octahedron,
or, more popularly, as
the star tetrahedron.
Let's take a look at some
of the sacred geometry
secrets behind this form of
our soul body, the astral body
of consciousness.
This journey into
secrets of the merkaba,
our activated body
of soul travel,
will take us into core
sacred geometry blueprints
from the mind of God.
In the esoteric tradition,
each of the four elements
is a manifestation of the
primary subtle body levels.
Earth equals our physical body.
Water equals our
body of life force.
Air equals our soul or
astral body of consciousness.
And fire equals our spirit core.
So from the Hidden
Temple teachings,
the octahedral is the form
which completes and encloses
the cubital cross by connecting
the ends of the three
axes of physical space,
whereas the cube encloses
the cubicle cross
of physical space
by creating a wall at
the end of each axis.
As we have seen, this makes
the black cube of space,
the divine thought form
behind the container
of the physical world for
spirits to incarnate into.
So the octahedron
is the opposite
polarity to the black cube
container of the physical body.
It is the astral
body of consciousness
within the physical.
This is the sacred geometry
from the mind of God
of how our soul life is hidden
within our physical body.
We need to remember that in
the Hidden Temple teachings,
the term "astral" comes from the
root "aster," meaning "a star."
A star is a point of
light in the darkness.
So the next part of the
deeper merkaba teaching
is that many fundamental
sacred geometry
forms can be turned
into a star form,
a process called stellation.
The basic geometric solid
form is a vessel, a container,
whereas the star form
radiates outward like a sun
rather than containing.
You will recall that when we
do the zero point centering
process, we move all of
our energy and attention
dynamically into the center
of the center of the center
of an energetic
location in our body
in order to connect to the
divine center of that location
and thereby activate it.
Once we have
activated that center,
then the radiance
process begins.
The activated center
streams out energy and light
in all directions like a sun.
This is the master method to
activate any energy center
in our body.
It's a key technique for
advanced spiritual practices.
In pure sacred
geometry archetypes
from the mind of God, a solid
form like a platonic solid
can turn into a star
through a similar process.
Energy on every face
of the form streams
into the center of that
face, activating that center
and raising it vertically
above the face.
Lines of energy then
connect that raised center
to the base lines of that face.
The octahedron of the air and
astral consciousness stellates
meets by taking the
divine center of each face
and moving it straight
upward, then connecting it
to the triangle
of each face, thus
making the stellated octahedron.
This also means that the
connection of the raised
central point to
the triangular base
makes a tetrahedron on each
face of the octahedron.
These eight
tetrahedrons, one on each
of the eight faces
of the octahedron,
then remarkably give the
appearance of the entire form,
now being two
interpenetrating tetrahedra.
This is the reason for
the alternative name
for the sellated octahedron
being the star tetrahedron,
a name popularized
by Leonardo da Vinci.
So the activation of the
octahedron into a radiant star
form creates the stellated
octahedron, which could also
be seen as a star tetrahedron.
Both perspectives are accurate.
Each one is a different
facet of the jewel
of this exquisite spiritual
form from the mind of God.
From the second perspective
of adding the tetrahedron
onto each face and
thereby turning
the entire form
of the octahedron
into what appears to be
a double tetrahedron,
it is important to note
that the tetrahedron is
the form for fire.
Fire is the element
connected to our spirit core,
our divine spark from the ocean
of fire of the godhead, which
gets activated above our heads
during higher initiation.
So what does this all mean?
It means that the merkaba
activation of our subtle bodies
allows them to become
divine vehicles for us
to move through higher worlds,
which is one of the greatest
attainments of
spiritual development
and a great ancient
secret of initiation.
This activation
of the merkaba is
based on the activation of our
consciousness, the astral body
of the octahedron, through
applying the tetrahedron
of spiritual fire.
This brings us to another
great hidden sacred geometry
secret of our
activated soul body,
the star tetrahedron,
that it is formed
within the incubator
of the black cube
of physical incarnation,
which unfolds
into the cross of
our physical body.
This means that it is through
our difficult experiences
of incarnation in the physical
body in a physical world
that our activated soul
body of the star tetrahedron
gestates into its
perfected form,
like a caterpillar in a
cocoon becoming the butterfly.
The star tetrahedron of
our activated soul body
is thus the fruit of our earthly
physical incarnation, which,
although often
challenging and painful,
is nonetheless essential for
humanity's spiritual flowering.
When the cube of
space is unfolded
into the cross of
our physical body,
the star tetrahedron of
our activated consciousness
is revealed.
This black cube is
the matrix in which
our perfected consciousness,
our star tetrahedron soul body,
gestates in the cocoon
of the physical body
until we are ready for
full spiritual initiation
and merkaba activation.
This is the mystery of
the Rosicrucian symbol
of the black cross of the
physical body giving rise
to the seven red roses
of our activated chakras.
Only through accepting
the density and suffering
of physical incarnation can
we develop the red roses
and develop the star tetrahedron
of our merkaba soul vehicle.
There is also a hidden
complementary mystery
to the generation of
our activated soul
body within the cube and the
cross of our physical body.
This secret is that it is
our activated astral body
which provides a deeper
structural support
for the physical body itself.
The star tetrahedron
is the strength
of our soul, which keeps our
physical body from collapsing
from all the stresses
of our physical life.
This is shown in the work
of Buckminster Fuller.
He demonstrated that a
hollow cube is very unstable
and collapses unless it
is bracketed internally
by the tetrahedron and
octahedron triangular forms.
Only these triangular forms have
rigidity and internal strength.
Without this
internal bracketing,
hollow cube forms
made with soft corners
will immediately collapse.
Whereas hollow tetrahedra,
with octahedra,
create unbreakable structures.
This is also the key to
Bucky Fuller's development
of the geodesic dome as the
strongest possible form made
with the minimum of materials
through using the triangular
truss system.
So we have just seen some
of the hidden secrets
from the mind of God
related to the activation
of the human soul within
the merkaba process.
This shows how our
physical existence
is essential to the activation
of the soul body, the star
tetrahedron.
Like so many sacred
geometry mysteries,
hints of these divine secrets
are given in classical text
and illustrations.
The star tetrahedron
is usually shown
in classical
illustrations simply
as a six-pointed
star, a hexagram,
as seen here in this
Indian yantra of Ganesh.
Note that this shows the upper
horizontal line of the star
tetrahedron at the
level of the shoulders
and the lower horizontal line
at the level of the knees.
This is embedded initiation
knowledge regarding
where the lines of
the star tetrahedron
actually appear
on the human body.
This exact information on where
the upper and lower horizontal
lines appear on
the body was also
given in the Western tradition
by Rudolf Steiner in 1907
when he revealed the secret
of the five-pointed star
and six-pointed star, star
tetrahedron, forms of the human
and astral bodies.
Traditions all over the
world use these pentagram
and hexagram patterns in
practices to create health,
to prolong life, and to
protect the energy field, also
to provide wealth and
to connect to higher
beings and spiritual realities.
Our merkaba subtle body
vehicles are only one part
of the sacred geometry
of our energy fields
which allow us to
incarnate on Earth.
For a spirit to incarnate
into a human body,
there's an intricate
further process
of creating the physical
and subtle bodies.
In Sanskrit, our bodies
are known as koshas,
meaning sheaths or
vehicles, for the spirit
to incarnate on each
plane of existence.
For example, the Annamaya Kosha
means literally "the sheath
made of food."
this.
Is our physical body,
which is created out
of the substance of
the physical food
our mother eats while
we're in the womb and then
the physical food that
we eat after our birth.
In other words,
our physical body
is based on forming
physical substance
through the consciousness
and energy grid of the net
into the divine sacred geometry
pattern of the human body
so that our spirit can
act on the physical plane.
The next body is
the Pranamaya Kosha,
the sheath of vital energy.
Life energy is known to
every classical tradition
and was an essential foundation
of key spiritual and healing
practices.
Life energy was known
by different names,
such as prana in India,
chi in China, qi in Japan,
ether in Greek.
Then there are further
sheaths of the human being
on increasingly
higher plane levels.
There are many different
models of the different planes
and subtle bodies that are
taught in different traditions.
However, they are all united
by a common understanding
that, just as we are given a
physical body through which
our spirit incarnates to
act on the physical plane,
each of our subtle bodies is
a detachment of the substance
of a particular higher
plane, which we individualize
to become our vehicle so that
we can experience and act
on higher planes.
We operate on all the major
planes simultaneously.
We experience this
as simultaneously
having sensations in
the physical body,
and in our energetic
state, and in our emotions,
and in our thoughts, and in
our spiritual experiences
all at the same time.
As we pass through the
seven heavenly halls
towards our new
incarnation on Earth,
we must connect
our subtle bodies
to the new growing physical
body in order to use it
as our new earthly vehicle.
This brings us to another great
secret of sacred geometry--
the hidden net
coding system which
connects our subtle bodies
to our physical body.
This secret is found deeply
embedded in the Jewish Kabbalah
but is understood by
very few people today.
In the great ancient text
called "Sefer Yetzirah,"
it described how the 22 letters
of the original Hebrew alphabet
are divided into a
series of 3, 7, and 12.
These are described as three
mother letters of the Hebrew
alphabet, seven double letters,
and 12 elemental letters.
The initiation teaching
behind this 3, 7, 12 division
is that each Hebrew letter
is a divine power, a flame
letter from the ocean
of fire of the godhead
that is connected to a
particular anchor point
for our spirit in
the physical body.
Another hidden
aspect which was not
made public in the
"Sefer Yetzirah" text
is that the complete sequence
of spiritual anchor points
in the body is, in
fact, 1, 3, 7, 12.
We have to remember that
the ancient Jewish tradition
forbade direct representations
of the one, the godhead source,
as being too holy to
directly represent.
So the one could not be
referenced in Judaism directly,
just as it was forbidden
to say the name of God
or to show any visual
image of God in Judaism.
The full 1, 3, 7, 12 sequence
needed for our spirit
to anchor into our
human body was only made
public in the early
1900s through the work,
once again, of the great
European Rosicrucian teacher
Rudolf Steiner, who revealed
many ancient mysteries that
had not been previously
released to the public.
So it was Steiner who
released the knowledge
that these numbers are related
to the precise locations
in the physical body where our
spirit anchors and operates
through.
The one is the first
part of the sequence.
This is the one anchor point
for our divine immortal spirit
core in the center of our head.
The next part of
the full sequence
is the three for the
three anchor points
of the soul or, in
technical terms,
the three anchor points
for the astral body,
our body of consciousness.
These are connected to the three
mother letters of the Hebrew
alphabet, perhaps called mother
letters because the soul is
the mother of our internal
life and our sense
of individual self.
These three mother letters
are also shown in the Kabbalah
to be the source of
each of the three
axes of physical space,
the cubicle cross which
is the internal structure
of the black cube.
These are the three axes
which make the octahedron
and then stellate into the star
tetrahedron of our astral body.
The first of these three
anchor points for the soul
overlaps with the one point of
the spirit, the Cave of Brahma
in the center of the head.
This provides our mental
life in the physical body.
This Cave of Brahma provides
the close connection
between our spirit core
and our consciousness,
which we can experience through
the awakening of our mind
and thoughts when we
focus at this location.
The second of these
three anchor points
is at the heart energy
center in the upper chest.
This provides our emotional
life in the astral body.
The heart is the center of
the vertically-oriented vesica
in the human body, held
between the spheres of the head
and the sphere of the
lower abdomen center.
The heart can be
activated through the six
essential exercises of
the Rosicrucian tradition
to become the
absolute organizing
center of the entire
human energy body
and which can then create
harmony and balance
in every other energy
center in the human body
through the power of the heart.
The third of these
three anchor points
is in the lower abdomen
beneath the navel.
This is the connection
point to the core power
of the etheric body, just as
the head is the connection
point to one of the spirit.
This is the power
center in the human body
where the vital life
force provides the energy
to the heart and the head and
which anchors us into the Earth
through the hips and the legs.
All of these are connected
through the central column
of energy in the
human body, described
as the metal pillar in our
work on the Grid of Life Design
and also known as the Taiji
pole in the Chinese tradition.
In fact, the tradition
which taught these three
anchor points most clearly
and in the most detail
for practical internal alkene
was the Daoist tradition
of China, which called these
three anchor points of the soul
the three dantians,
meaning the three elixir
fields where we can transform
ourselves to higher levels.
For the three anchor
points of the soul,
the Chinese Daoist
tradition sees the head
as the upper dantian,
where we perfect the elixir
of consciousness.
It sees the chest as
the middle dantian,
where we perfect the elixir
of our inner life feelings,
and our lower abdomen
as the lower dantian,
where we perfect the elixir
of our vital life force.
There are specialized knowledge
for each of the three elixir
fields in the body.
For, example dynamic energy
in the body cannot be safely
concentrated and stored in
the upper or middle dantian.
There's a tendency
to try subconsciously
to store our energy in these
areas in the Western world,
especially to store
it in our head
because we're such
a mental culture.
However, these areas cannot
safely hold these high levels
of charge, and trying to
do so leads to headaches,
mental and emotional tension,
brain fog, nervousness,
irritability, heart and
breathing issues, et cetera.
It's the lower abdomen,
the lower elixir field,
which is the safe repository
of the dynamic vital power
in the body.
Often it's said that
the lower elixir
field is around 2
inches below the navel
in the center of the body.
However, a more
complete understanding
comes with a particular
Daoist method.
Put your thumbs together at
the navel with your fingers
making a triangle downwards so
that the index fingers touch
around the top of
your pubic bone.
The area inside of this triangle
in the center of your body
is your lower dantian.
Daoists use spiral and
vortex circulations
at the lower abdomen to
collect the vital energy
and to store it in this area.
This repository of
vital force is then,
in advanced practices,
used to circulate energy
through the other
circuits of the body
in order to nourish the
entire body and energy
field before collecting it
again at the lower dantian
to end the practice.
Although that's the
approach of the Daoist,
we should be aware that most
traditions around the world
have their own secrets of how
to use these three centers.
For the European Rosicrucians,
these three anchor points
for the soul are understood to
be our thinking in the head,
our feeling in the heart, and
our willing in the abdomen.
In Buddhism, they appear as
thought, speech, and action.
In Sufism, they appear as
head, heart, and hands,
with the hands expressing the
action from the lower abdomen
energy.
Then there are
the deeper secrets
of these centers, the
holographic cosmological
relationships known
to spiritual science.
In Western alchemy,
these three centers
are understood to also
be microcosmic emanations
of the moon in the head,
the sun in the chest,
and the Earth in the abdomen.
This was a hidden teaching
in Western alchemy
which often shows the sun,
moon, and Earth together
in its teaching images.
Advanced practices
will bring in the power
from these cosmological
sources to energize
and activate these centers
in the human energy body.
Now that we've surveyed the one
spirit and three soul anchor
points in the body, the next
part of this 1, 3, 7, 12 sacred
geometry sequence is the seven.
This appears as the seven anchor
points of the etheric life
body.
The tradition which taught
these seven the most clearly
and in the most practical detail
has been the Vedic tradition
of India where these
seven anchor points
appear as the seven chakras.
Today, most other
systems in the world
refer to the seven
chakras concepts of India
in their understanding of
these seven anchor points.
These seven points are
connected to the double letters
of the Hebrew alphabet.
In fact, calling
them double letters
could be considered another
encoding of a secret,
that the seven are linked to
our etheric life body, which
in many traditions
is referred to
as our etheric double
that mirrors and sustains
our physical body.
Just as there's an overlap
between the one anchor point
of the spirit in
the Cave of Brahma
with the first anchor
point of the soul,
the upper dantian,
in the same area,
so there's also an overlap
between this head center
of the spirit and soul with a
third eye center of the seven
chakras of the etheric body.
This is one reason why
the Cave of Brahma area
is so powerful to activate.
It is a key connection point
between the spirit, the soul,
and our vital life force
through the third eye chakra
moving back into
the Cave of Brahma
in the center of the head.
There is also an overlap between
the heart center of the three
soul elixir fields and the
heart center of the seven
etheric body chakras,
connecting our heart's
emotional and moral powers
with our vital life force.
These seven chakras
are understood
in deeper spiritual science to
be the emanations of the seven
classical planets.
Although the exact correlations
between specific planets
and chakras can vary somewhat
in different traditions.
The final part of this 1, 3, 7,
12 incarnation coding sequence
is the 12 anchor points
for the structures
of the physical body.
These are taught most clearly in
classical Western metaphysics,
including the European
Rosicrucian tradition.
In deeper spiritual
science, it's
understood that each of the
12 areas of the physical body
structure are emanations from
a specific sign of the Zodiac--
in other words, from
a specific group
of stars which encircle
us in the cosmos.
In Eastern systems,
the 12 anchors
manifest as the 12 organ energy
meridians of Chinese medicine.
This 1, 3, 7, 12
system is a hidden key
to understanding how
higher powers are encoded
into specific anchor points in
our physical and subtle bodies
so that our spirit can incarnate
into vehicles for living
our independent life.
To activate the power of
each of these anchor points,
there are many hidden
practices from traditions
around the world
which can be explored.
It should, at this
point, perhaps not
surprise us that this sacred
geometry pattern of the 3, 7,
12 described in the
"Sefer Yetzirah"
text of the Jewish
Kabbalah also appears
deeply encoded into the
Kabbalistic tree of life energy
pattern.
We have been
constructing this pattern
through practices you
learned and experienced
in earlier episodes,
with added insights
from the Egyptian and
European traditions
as the Grid of Life Design
or, for short, GOLD.
The 10 energy centers of
the Grid of Life Design
are linked together
through pathways,
or we could also call
them energy channels.
There are exactly three
horizontal pathways
just as there are three anchor
points for the astral body,
seven vertical
pathways, just as there
are seven anchor points
for the etheric life body,
and 12 diagonal pathways just
as there are 12 anchor points
for the physical body.
This brings us now to
completing the work we began
in our earlier episodes of
constructing the Grid of Life
Design in our own energy field.
If you'd like to do
the practice now,
please see the companion
video for this episode.
Otherwise, please
set an intention
to come back and do the
practice at a later time.
Join us for our
next episode when
we will explore the
hidden energies and powers
within sacred geometry.
This will open up an
incredible new world
of practical applications
of sacred geometry
to transform our life, our
health, and our consciousness.
See you then.
[MUSIC PLAYING]